Hello everybody.
Thanks for sticking around.
I'm Jasper.
Today I'm going to talk about keywords versus embeddings.
I can tell you already, of course, it's keywords and embed
dings.
Yeah, let's get into it.
Of course, I'm going to start with a couple of disc
laimers.
My level is Eli 12.
So if I talk to Claude, that's usually how I
let it explain math problems to me.
So expect Eli 12, maybe Eli 15, not Eli 5.
And since I'm scraping a lot of the atmosphere, I felt
like it's important to say I try to be respectful.
The way I'm doing it right now is if you have
the no unauthenticated label.
That means if you do not wish to see or be seen
by unauthenticated users, then I will not show you
on any of my pages.
Also, you can always address me directly and tell me, please, I
don't want to be part of this.
I'm doing no LLM training yet.
Although it's kind of interesting.
Maybe in the future I might, but I would communicate that.
So I do not consider myself a thought leader, at least in
this realm.
And so I was thinking about what could I actually contribute.
I assume there are some developers here around you.
So I thought maybe the thing that's most interesting is my
stack, because it's kind of low budget, as low budget can
be in this kind of space.
And you see here my small, old Mac studios, and they are
doing the heavy lifting.
Nevermind, I will explain later.
So one wall of text is allowed, right?
This is my stack.
These are the important bits.
So if you later want to recreate this, these are probably the
yellow ones, the things you might want to get or emulate.
Yeah.
So let's start with a little explanation.
What I like about Blue Sky or what I like about Twitter?
I think the coolest thing about Blue Sky and that coolest thing
that was with Twitter was you can pretty quickly see whether you
match with someone, right?
Platonically.
You go to the profile, you see like 10 tweets, and it
's like, bam, that's a cool person or not, right?
I like the quantity over quality approach, right?
Because each message is like this high without images.
You can go through thousands of them in minutes.
Okay, it's a little, maybe hundreds.
And by that you can kind of get this long tail discovery
effect going, right?
Because you see so much, you can also discover the small accounts.
So it's not all Taylor Swift, but you might want to
rather discover approachable people in your area or in your area
of expertise or something.
also for content like movies, books, whatever.
And then by that you have this kind of lateral navigation.
So shout out to all the people who do this threads kind
of navigating style where you can jump between threads by topic.
But that's kind of embedded in Twitter or Blue Sky already,
right?
And the coolest thing about Blue Sky that was kind of cool
about Twitter is you have data access and that's where the
tech comes in.
So I was thinking about how to boost these functions.
and of course the first idea I had was do some fancy
Follower graph visualization.
So you know Theo's work like this beautiful green shiny galaxy
and you can dive in and it's pretty cool.
And this is like my humble beginning some couple of years back.
This is actually the Noster user space and I did some
clustering.
I don't even know anymore what the coloring was, but this
is a force-directed graph around the center, so You could
hover over it, but I can't always thought it's it
's very beautiful and it gives you kind of a feeling of
how things like the the shape of the sphere, but but it
's hard to navigate, right?
So how how do I use this now to find interesting stuff?
I mean I can I can zoom in somewhere and then hover,
but I always found that a little bit cumbersome.
So what I did is I got more instead of the follow
graph.
I got into the content graph a little more and So there
's this really cool technology from the 70s Or 80s
maybe and and it's called TF-IDF.
Does anybody know from when it is?
Yeah from when is it?
Yeah early 90s even okay, so but it's It's
old and tested battle tested and it's really cool technology to
extract keywords basically from a set of documents so and in In
blue sky it's easy to just say okay every user account
is basically a document So the collection of all your posts that
's your document and then you can do these relative term counts
and compare and then you know Okay, this user is mentioning a
certain topic much more often like Star Trek than all the other
users So Star Trek must be important for them One question I
wanted to ask to the audience you don't have to answer
it now But maybe after the talk you can come to me
and explain to me and I am building still a highly individual
tokenizing pipeline so tokenizing is the process of cutting the
text into the smaller parts which you are actually counting and you
have to do lots of cleanup and other stuff like stemming
so bring them down to a common word stem so you can
compare the words and I just wanted to ask this is normal
is everybody doing that or is that kind of a black box
approach where you just put in data And it gives you the
tokens.
I haven't found that yet Also, this is interesting I found
I'm doing my own language detection on top of the language
declaring by posters because There are many multilingual posters like me
from Germany I switch between English and German all the time and
a couple of times I will miss it and then I will
post German post with English declaration or the other way around So
I wanted to show you this beautiful chart which got zero likes
when I posted it so here it is again Which illustrates that
a little bit so the blue one it it's kind of
lateral But still the blue line is the ratio from non EN
to non English to English text so for example, you see this
nice spike here that's when all the Brazilians came
in because Portuguese or Portuguese speakers came in because Brazil shut down
X for a while You have this nice Slope or whatever
you call it.
This was actually when blue sky introduced their language detection feature in
the frontend, right?
They started asking you are you actually writing in English so you
can pretty nicely see that and then here this is actually a
bug so they had a bug so that's why this is
not going up, but this is going up and What's also
interesting is this is where the u.
s.
Election happened and You don't see anything because it affected the
whole world and everybody was talking about it and the mix of
non EN English to English speakers did not change in this time
I thought this quite interesting, but still you have like 3%
constant errors, and I didn't want to Have that in my
in my terms basically I wanted to have pristine English terms
or pristine German terms, so Okay.
Oh, I've got not one minute left This is where cloud
took over So my development not this presentation.
I wrote most of it really by hand and Embeddings
embeddings are magic.
It's like a black box.
You throw a text in yeah You get number a number out
it gives you a test this takes us here in the space.
This is here So I embedded all the text still doing that
in real time, which is why I need the max they do
that if you pay for that Like get a cloud solution you
will be poor in one week the naive approach you are the
average of all your posts had some nice results already, but of
course everyone contains multitudes so This is what I use now.
There is a dive pool discovery feed you can try it out
in the blue sky app and This means I have multiple clusters
for you and I compare them to Multiple clusters of other users,
so if you connect to the dive pool feed and blue sky
I will know you I Will know what you posted I can
cluster that and I can compare it to the clusters of everybody
else so of course I Will skip this the Thing missing is
the labels I still need labels so by embeddings I only
get the clusters, but when I want to show them to you
I want to say this cluster is about these topics So this
is why I still need TF IDF, but those labels are
shit So to get slightly better labels I embed all the terms
basically all the possible keywords and I use that information to find
the terms that are closest to the clusters and So I guess
thank you for your time Check it out dive pool dot social
just go to the page.
It's not self-explanatory because I designed it But
you will get a feeling for it Outlook I might train
QN at some time and That's it.
That's my handle.
Please follow me ask me everything Anything I'm here at Monday,
too.
So for those of you who are still here at Monday, please
contact me and reach out